# QuikStor Third-Party API Documentation

The purpose of this document is to illustrate the available integration points and processess for managing QuikStor connected third-party self storage management products via the available Application Programming interface ("API") model. This API documentation gives you access to directly integrate the activation and management functions of our service via third-party software application.  

QuikStor API is a Hybrid between REST (Representational State Transfer) and customized API based cloud service that requests data and sends data to our QuikStor database using simple web requests over HTTPS protocols (GET, POST and PUT methods) encoded in JSON formatted data allows us to provide access to the system accross multiple platform and devices. 

#### Overview
Before getting started with the API there are a few things you as the developer should be familiar with.

#### HTTPS 
All web API requests must use an HTTPS connection. All usecured requests received by the API will receive an error response.

#### HTTP POST
All requests to the web API must use the HTTP POST method. All information passed to the server through HTTP GET and DELETE methods are inherently insecure as browsers and mobile devices may cache request URLs.  While this breaks RESTful API conventions, it is necessary to meet the security requirements of the API.

#### Authentication 
All requests made to the API must supply an authentication token using the OAuth 2.0 API authorization, which are being handled by OAuth validation and tokens. To receive an API token, a platform must successfully authenticate with the API using the Authenticate API method. 

OAuth 2.0 API authorization authenticates an API license and returns an API token if successful.

#### JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
All returned data objects are in this form by default.
: All returned data objects (except the AuthToken) can be in this form if requested from the API.

Provided below are web links to additional resources related to using the API.
- JSON Overview: http://www.json.org
- JSON.NET: http://www.newtonsoft.com/json (also available as a NuGet in Visual Studio)
- REST Wikipedia Page: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer

# Standard API HTTP Return Codes

Code | Description
---------|----------
 200 | OK or Success.  
 400 | Bad Request. This indicates that the request there is an issue with the param-argument has issue.... <>. 
 401 | Unathorized. This indicates that the authorization token is invalid or expired.
 500 | Internal Server Error. This indicates that the error has occured on the server. You may need to contact QuikStor administration by sending an email to cloud_support@quikstor.com. 